New pages on cameras and HDR (+ adjacent features) (#199)
bevy-cheatbook/bevy-cheatbook: src/features/camera.md

# Cameras

{{#include ../include/links.md}}

> Cameras are what drives all rendering in Bevy. They are responsible for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cameras drive all rendering in Bevy. They are responsible for
```

configuring what to draw, how to draw it, and where to draw it.

You must have at least one camera entity, in order for anything to be displayed
at all! If you forget to spawn a camera, you will get an empty black screen.

In the simplest case, you can create a camera with the default settings. Just
spawn an entity using [`Camera2dBundle`][bevy::Camera2dBundle] or
[`Camera3dBundle`][bevy::Camera3dBundle]. It will simply draw all renderable
entities that are [visible][cb::visibility].

This page gives a general overview of cameras in Bevy. Also see the dedicated
pages for [2D cameras][cb::camera-2d] and [3D cameras][cb::camera-3d].

> Practical advice: always create [marker components][cb::component-marker] for

Reviewer: This is no longer needed IME: `Camera2d` / `Camera3d` exist and UI cmaeras are no more.

Author: I disagree. If you have more than one camera, you are probably using them for different purposes (game camera, overlay camera, whatever), so you should have marker components.

If you are just prototyping / starting out and have only one camera... well... i think it's good practice to make a marker component anyway, so you don't accidentally end up with broken logic if you ever want to use more cameras later.

your camera entities, so that you can [query][cb::query] your cameras easily!

```rust,no_run,noplayground
{{#include ../code/src/features/camera/general.rs:simple}}
```

## The Camera Transform

Cameras have [transforms][cb::transform], which can be used to position or
rotate the camera. This is how you move the camera around.

For examples, see these [cookbook][chapter::cookbook] pages:
 - [3D pan-orbit camera][cookbook::pan-orbit-camera], like in 3D editor apps

If you are making a game, you should implement your own custom camera controls
that feel appropriate to your game's genre and gameplay.

### Zooming the camera

You *could* use the transform's scale to scale/stretch the camera; however,

> don't confuse that with "zooming"! Typically, zooming should be done

Reviewer 2: This particularly causes problems with culling as I recall. I’d suggest just not scaling the camera entity’s transform.

Author: Okay! I wasn't aware of this. This is a good reason for me to make the wording stricter.

using the [projection](#projection).

For orthographic projections, change the projection's scale. This way you can be
confident about how exactly coordinate/units map to the screen, and avoid
imprecision or visual artifacts. This also helps avoid scaling artifacts with 2D
assets.

```rust,no_run,noplayground
{{#include ../code/src/features/camera/d2.rs:zoom}}
```

For perspective projections, change the FOV. This achieves the desired 3D effect
of zooming with a lens. Decrease the FOV to "zoom in" (make objects appear
closer). Increase the FOV to "zoom out" (make objects appear further away,
increase the stretching due to the perspective effect).

```rust,no_run,noplayground
{{#include ../code/src/features/camera/d3.rs:zoom}}
```

That said, in some cases (such as editor apps), using the transform scale
might make sense. The effect it produces (stretching the content as it appears
on screen) might feel better to control.

> ## Projection

Author: Well my point was that these should be thought of as different use cases. FOV gives you the "camera lens zoom" effect, so in a game where you have a 3D camera and you want to zoom in and out, that's what you want. Scale just takes the image and makes it bigger. In an editor app, that might be what you want, you probably dont want to mess with FOV, as it would look weird.

I see that I might not have expressed it clearly. Do you have any ideas?

The camera projection is responsible for mapping the coordinate system to the
viewport. This effectively determines the "coordinate space" you are working in.

Bevy provides two kinds of projections:
[`OrthographicProjection`][bevy::OrthographicProjection] and
[`PerspectiveProjection`][bevy::PerspectiveProjection]. They are configurable,
to be able to serve a variety of different use cases. See the dedicated pages
for [2D cameras][cb::camera-2d] and [3D cameras][cb::camera-3d] to learn more
about what you can do with them.

It is possible to implement your own [custom camera
projections][cb::camera-custom-projection]. This can give you full control over
the coordinate system. However, beware that things might behave in unexpected

> ways if you violate Bevy's [coordinate system conventions][cb::coords]!

Reviewer 2: You probably have/will document it but just noting that reverse z is an important detail.

```rust,no_run,noplayground
{{#include ../code/src/features/camera/general.rs:get-viewport}}
```

## Coordinate Conversion

[`Camera`][bevy::Camera] provides methods to help with coordinate conversion
between on-screen coordinates and world-space coordinates. For an example, see
the ["cursor to world"][cookbook::cursor2world] cookbook page.

## Clear Color

This is the "background color" that the whole viewport will be cleared to,
before a camera renders anything.

You can also disable clearing on a camera, if you want to preserve all the
pixels as they were before.

[See this page for more info.][cb::clearcolor]

## Camera Ordering

A camera's priority is a simple integer value that controls the order relative
to any other cameras with the same render target.

For example, if you have multiple cameras that all render to the primary window,
they will behave as multiple "layers". Cameras with higher priority will render
"on top of" cameras with lower priority.

```rust,no_run,noplayground
{{#include ../code/src/features/camera/general.rs:overlay}}
```

## UI Rendering

Bevy UI rendering is integrated into the cameras! Every camera will, by default,
also draw UI.

> Old versions of Bevy required a separate camera to be spawned for the UI. For the

Reviewer: This sort of aside about how things used to be is typically distracting IME.

Author: I agree in general and I avoid doing it. I don't fully remember my reasons why I decided to do it in this case. I think you are right, I should remove it and somewhat re-word this section.

sake of a simpler user experience, the UI is now automatically drawn.

However, if you are working with multiple cameras, you probably only want your
UI to be drawn once (probably by the main camera). You can UI rendering on your
other cameras.

Also, UI on multiple cameras is currently broken in Bevy. Even if you want

> multiple UI cameras (say, to display UI in an app with multiple windows), it

Reviewer 2: Link to issue could be good.

Author: I couldn't find any single issue that covers this nicely. The information seems to be scattered across multiple issues and PRs.

does not work correctly.

```rust,no_run,noplayground
{{#include ../code/src/features/camera/general.rs:no-ui}}
```

## Disabling Cameras

You can deactivate a camera without despawning it. This is useful when you want
to preserve the camera entity and all the configuration it carries, so you can
easily re-enable it later.

Some example use cases: toggling an overlay, switching between a 2D and 3D view.

```rust,no_run,noplayground
{{#include ../code/src/features/camera/general.rs:is_active}}
```

> ## Multiple Cameras

Reviewer: Item / paperdoll previews is another important use case.
